Hello,

A miracle is the moment where the mass, witnessing the unexpected, does not understand what happened, and listens to the one who, retaining enough composure, says “I told you so”. The proof, usually, is written text. The strength, the certainty of text cannot be questioned through the fleeting quality of human speech. As carved, printed and drawn words expanded to form to encompass human life, in both its practices and its ideals, it is the most abstract of their sub-groups, numbers, which gave birth to the last miracle.

The turing paper, the original scripture for that manifestation, only bothered itself with ideals. Its applied mathematics, as it turned out to be, were quite un-rigorous. But the word is there for the mind, and not for the deed. What is a theoretical solution to a theoretical problem, and the description of vague -by the mathematician's standards- guideline to implement this theory seems to be but an afterthought. The unseen phenomenon here isn't the simple implementation of theories, but the implementation of an all-encompassing theory. If you had such a device, and the need for that devices stems only from the our biological limitations, then you could know all. The Entscheidungsproblem is the decision problem. Can we make a decision, an un-arbitrary, un-ambivalent, a binary decision? The fluidity, the ever-evolving, consuming and forgetful quality of our minds seems to prevent us from doing so. The Turing paper, then is but the newest iteration in our long list of claims for universality. It was first about the world of numbers.

The purpose, then wasn't to have a physical proof of universal decision making, the purpose was to provide mental re-assurance., to KNOW that it was possible to KNOW. That even if we weren't able to hold and manifest that knowledge, we could rely on the fact that there was a system that could. Systems we've always relied on, and even more once they manifested their omnipotence through physical manifestations.

It started just like any other miracle. Recognized only within a community which was already persuaded. All knew the writer at the time, and acknowledged his unusual capacities, and so they took their word for granted, and so they started building a computing machine. The machine was according to the word, it would store, process, store, process, store, process, until a given state was reached, and then it would wait, ready to store and process again.


#### THE APPLICATION

mention that the mental certainty was present in the community
the fact that it is explainable doesn't prevent it from being worshipped
worshipping the explainable is exactly the point of the ones who (with)hold the power.
a supplement to human memory
a carelessness, a coldness that was needed in science
but also the power trip of being able to manipulate that miracle, the desire to go further and apply principles which maybe weren't there to begin with
